In this coaching session that happened
during one of our public Q&As's, we meet
a man who's having a hard time getting
over a breakup. And he discovers that
the thing that's keeping him from
getting over the breakup and the thing
that got him into the breakup in the
first place is the same thing. So, I
recently went through a breakup um that
was I think largely my fault. Um and I'm
struggling. I I feel like I betrayed
myself and I was not authentic in myself
and I've I I was someone totally
different and now going into this post
breakup world I'm just like so mad at
myself and I don't know how to
uh forgive that person that I was um and
kind of move on. How often do you blame
yourself? How often is it your fault?
A lot probably. Yeah.
How is that not your fault?
Um, how is it not your fault that it's
always your fault?
That you're always blaming yourself.
Um, I'm not sure. Um, if if I could give
you a choice at the end of this call,
you could realize how to forgive
yourself
for [__] up this relationship or you
could realize how to stop blaming
yourself for everything. What would you
choose?
Forgive myself.
And what makes it important to you to
make sure that you keep blaming yourself
for [__]
Um because I'm mad at myself for my
actions. Um yeah. So why why is it
important for you to continue to be mad
at yourself for actions future and past?
Like what's the what do you get from
that? Uh yes, I can keep
that alive a little bit because if I I
let that go then I kind of let go the
relationship um in a way. Cool. Cool.
Yeah. You you see it? Do you see the the
trap that you just set for yourself?
Like I I see the emotion starting to
come. So maybe you see it.
Yeah.
Um I I feel like this is just like the
state I've been in for like the last
month. um where I just can't I I can't
like I know I have highs and lows and I
just can't I I don't I don't want I
don't want to let it go because I I
still want to be in that relationship
but because of my actions I I hurt my
partner and she she left. Yeah.
Um but I don't I don't want to let that
go. So I don't want to forgive myself.
Right.
So how when you don't forgive yourself
generally in life for other things or
when you blame yourself and don't
forgive yourself is that always an
action of trying to hold
on or is there other reasons you do it?
Um, yeah, I suppose. And maybe I I also
tend to like, you know, like ruminate on
things like, "Oh, that's what I should
have said." And um like I could have I
could have done this and that would have
been so much better. Like I want to
Yeah. Like I I could have treated that
patient better. I could have shown up
for my friend better. And I I keep
harping on those things because if I if
I stay with those things then maybe I
can not make that mistake again. Yeah.
How much of your betrayal of her that
the way you treated her poorly is
because of that rumination.
A lot of it. Okay. So you're Yeah.
Okay. There's the trap.
So the thing you're ruminating
That kind of beating yourself rumination
is the thing that's causing you to
create the things that you ruminate
about.
Okay. Yeah.
kids. When when you have when you have a
a kid and you shame them for being
naughty, it's the best way to make sure
that they're going to be naughty in the
future.
So, shame yourself for drinking and it's
the best way to continue drinking.
Yeah, I think the the word shame I think
rings through because
I I can be really hard on myself um and
judgmental of myself for you not not
being perfect, not not doing what I need
to do like like you say drinking like oh
I shouldn't have shouldn't have drank
those beers last night or And yeah, like
Yeah.
You're addicted to the shame more than
anything else, I think, sir.
Yeah. Yeah. That that that feels right.
Um
just stop stop for a second. Get out of
your head for a second. Go to your
heart. Go to your
gut. Right.
Addiction means that
you're like in drinking. You're drinking
and it's destroying your life and it's
destroying your relationships. In your
case, it's
shame. So, what's the antidote to shame?
What do you do when you've got like the
shame hangover that you currently have?
support love. Yeah. Yeah. Acceptance.
Let's do Let's do love here. First,
let's do a visceral thing in your body.
Feel the shame in your body. You bet
hurt this woman. She
left. And
now on a completely sematic level, I
just want you to feel the exact opposite
of that feeling.
That's hard.
Yeah, but you started, man. I saw it.
Your chest raised. You started to feel
that love. I saw
it. Yeah. So, let's just call it love
and just love yourself for a
minute. Love
her. Yeah, you're allowed to cry. That's
part of love.
What you're going to want to do right
now is shame yourself for crying in
front of all these people. Yeah. Yeah, I
feel that. Yeah, I saw it. [__] that.
Look at everybody. Look at me and and
love me. Love yourself.
This is the antidote to your shame
addiction. Yeah. See that I'm loving
you. Look at the other faces. see that
they're loving you right now or in awe
of you
or check them
out. The shame is like [__] it's your
matrix. It's not even true. Like there's
like nobody has nobody thinks you have
anything to be ashamed of. I mean there
might be one person but that's because
they're a shame addict too and they're
don't like their own tears but that's
irrelevant.
Yeah,
that's that's that's the work.
You said you're a doctor. Did I hear
that? Uh physical therapist. The doctor
physical therapist, right? Okay. So,
this this is this is the this is the
physical therapy for the heart.
You know, you're stretching that
self-love muscle. Yeah. And when you do,
what's going to happen is what just
happened here. Like so when you stretch
a muscle, you get like some reaction,
you get some tension, you get some
shaking. That's all part of it. Same
thing when you show up with love.
Everything that's unloved comes to the
surface like the sadness and it's all
going to move. So think of it just like
physical therapy. It's like um 15
minutes a day I'm coming in loving
myself, loving that shame
and whatever happens happens.
Yeah. I don't think I I think this
experience has really cracked that open
and I'm struggling and managing all
that. But yeah, it's uh it's a lot to
feel that and um
the man the only reason you're managing
the only reason you're managing is for
shame.
Okay, if you're loving yourself, what do
you have to
manage? It's a question. Love yourself
and see what there is to manage.
Okay,
I'm asking a question. If you love
yourself right now, what's there to
manage?
Nothing. Yeah. Um, yeah. Just can kind
of be. Yeah.
Yeah. Thank you. You're welcome, man.
Pleasure.